.\" Manpage for bstatus
.\" Contact benjamin@bennybolton.com to correct any errors or typos.


.TH bstatus 1 "04 Jan 2015" "0.1.0" "bstatus man page"



.SH NAME

bstatus \- Simple status line generator



.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBbstatus\fR [\fIoptions\fR]



.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBbstatus\fR is a simple status line generator that will display and maintain
an array of items. Multiple item drivers exist, including a driver for running a
custom program for generating a status line, and multiple display drivers exist
for outputing in various formats, including a driver for running a custom
program for displaying the status line. For more information on available
drivers and how to use them, see \fIbstatus.conf\fR(5).



.SH OPTIONS


.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR \fIfile\fR
Specify the configuration file to load. The default configuration file is
\fI~/.bstatus.conf\fR if it exists, else the system-wide default configuration
file \fI/etc/bstatus.conf\fR is used. If \fB\-\fR is specified as the
configuration file, then standard input is used.


.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-log\fR \fIstream\fB:\fIfile\fR
Specify that any messages logged to any streams specified by \fIstream\fR shall
be logged to \fIfile\fR. Log files specified here take precedence over log files
specified in the configuration file. \fIstream\fR should contiain one or more of
the following characters:
.RS
.TP
\fBm\fR
Messages logged to the message stream.
.TP
\fBe\fR
Messages logged to the error stream.
.TP
\fBa\fR
All messages logged. \fBa\fR is equivalent to specifying \fBme\fR.
.RE


.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-suppress\fR \fIstream\fR
Specifies that messages logged to the streams specified by \fIstream\fR shall
not be outputted over \fBstderr\fR. See \fB\-\-log\fR above for the format of
\fIstream\fR.


.TP
\fB\-k\fR, \fB\-\-kill\-delay\fR \fIdelay\fR
Specifies how long \fBbstatus\fR should wait befour killing children with
\fBSIGKILL\fR after terminating children with \fBSIGTERM\fR. The default delay
is 5 seconds. This option takes precedence over the corresponding option in the
configuration file.


.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Displays quick help and option reference for the usage of \fBbstatus\fR.


.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Displays the version of \fBbstatus\fR compiled on the system.



.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2013 Benjamin Bolton.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

.P
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.



.SH SEE ALSO

\fIbstatus.conf\fR(5), \fIbstatus-command\fR(1), \fIbstatus-sleep\fR(1)



.SH AUTHORS

Benjamin Bolton (benjamin@bennybolton.com)
