.\" Manpage for bstatus-sleep, component of bstatus
.\" Contact benjamin@bennybolton.com to correct any errors or typos.


.TH bstatus-sleep 1 "04 Jan 2015" "0.1.0" "bstatus-sleep man page"



.SH NAME

bstatus-sleep \- Sleep until standard input is available



.SH SYNOPSIS

\fBbstatus-sleep\fR [\fItimeout\fR]



.SH DESCRIPTION

\fBbstatus-sleep\fR is an incredibly simple program, made as a component to
bstatus in order to make up for a lack of apropriate (standard) facilities in
the default shell.

\fBbstatus-sleep\fR shall sleep for \fItimeout\fR seconds, or 0 seconds if
\fItimeout\fR is unspecified, or indefinitely if \fItimeout\fR is \fB\-1\fR.
\fBbstatus-sleep\fR will exit befour the timeout is reached if either
interrupted by a signal, or if data becomes ready to read on standard input.

\fItimeout\fR can be a non\-negative real value or \fB-1\fR. If \fItimeout\fR
begins with a '\-' not followed by a '1', \fBbstatus-sleep\fR will display usage
information. This is simply for usability purposes.

\fBbstatus-sleep\fR will exit with a status of 0 if input is available, or has
become available, else an exit status of 0 if no input is available. This allows
\fBbstatus-sleep\fR to be used in order to poll standard input to check if data
is available, without blocking.



.SH COPYRIGHT

Copyright \(co 2013 Benjamin Bolton.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.

.P
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.



.SH SEE ALSO

\fIbstatus\fR(1), \fIbstatus-command\fR(1), \fIselect\fR(2)



.SH AUTHORS

Benjamin Bolton (benjamin@bennybolton.com)
